Docs update (#406)
elastic/apm-agent-android: docs/reference/how-tos.md

# How-tos

## How to get my Android application instance [get-application]

Your [Application](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Application) instance is needed to initialize the agent. There are a couple of ways you can get yours:

### From within your custom Application implementation (recommended)

> Ideally, the agent should get initialized as soon as your application is launched, to make sure that it can start collecting telemetry from the very beginning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, the agent should get initialized as soon as your application is launched to make sure that it can start collecting telemetry from the very beginning.
```

    }
}
```
1. `this` is your application.

:::{important}
For it to work, you **must** register your custom application in your `AndroidManifest.xml` file, like so:
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:android="http://schemas.android.com/apk/res/android">
    <application
        android:name="my.app.MyApp"
        ...
    </application>
</manifest>
```
:::

### From an Activity

You can get your application from an [Activity](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Activity) by calling its [getApplication()](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Activity#getApplication()) method.

### From a Fragment
From a [Fragment](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/fragment/app/Fragment.html) instance, you can get the [Activity](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/Activity) that it is associated to by calling its [requireActivity()](https://developer.android.com/reference/androidx/fragment/app/Fragment.html#requireActivity()) method. Once you get the Activity object, you can get your application from it as [explained above](#from-an-activity).

## How to get my {{stack}} export endpoint [get-export-endpoint]

> The export endpoint is where your app's telemetry is sent, so it's a requirement to initialize the agent. To find it in your {{stack}}, you'll need to **open {{kib}} and find "Add data" in the main menu**, alternatively, you can use the [global search field](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/introduction.html#kibana-navigation-search) and search for "Observability Onboarding".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The export endpoint is where your app's telemetry is sent, so it's required to initialize the agent. To find it in your {{stack}}, open {{kib}} and find **Add data** in the main menu. Alternatively, you can use the [global search field](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/introduction.html#kibana-navigation-search) and search for "Observability Onboarding".
```

> Then **select "Application"**, as shown below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then select **Application**, as shown below:
```

:::{image} ../images/find-export-endpoint/1.png
:screenshot:
:::

> Followed by **choosing "OpenTelemetry"**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose **OpenTelemetry**:
```

:::{image} ../images/find-export-endpoint/2.png
:screenshot:
:::

> Lastly, on the next page, **scroll down to the "APM Agents" pane, and select the "OpenTelemetry" tab**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the next page, scroll down to the **APM Agents** pane, and select the **OpenTelemetry** tab:
```

:::{image} ../images/find-export-endpoint/3.png
:screenshot:
:::

> You'll find your export endpoint URL as **the value for the `OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT` configuration setting**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your export endpoint URL is the value for the **`OTEL_EXPORTER_OTLP_ENDPOINT`** configuration setting:
```

:::{image} ../images/find-export-endpoint/4.png
:screenshot:
:::

## How to create an API Key [create-api-key]

API Keys are the recommended way of authenticating the agent with your {{stack}}. There's a couple of ways you can create one:

> ### Via {{kib}}'s Applications UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use {{kib}}'s Applications UI
```

> This is the most straightforward approach, you'll need to follow [this quick guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/apm-api-key.html#apm-create-an-api-key) on it and leave all the settings with their default values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the most straightforward approach. Follow [this quick guide](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/observability/current/apm-api-key.html#apm-create-an-api-key) and leave all the settings with their default values.
```

        .build()
}
```

1. There might be multiple `BuildConfig` types available to use in your code. The one that belongs to your app has a package name equal to your [app's namespace](https://developer.android.com/build/configure-app-module#set-namespace) value. So for example, if your app's namespace is set to `com.my.app`, then the `BuildConfig` type you must use would be `com.my.app.BuildType`.

## How to configure SSL/TLS? [faq-ssl]

Please note that the Elastic Agent does not handle SSL/TLS configs internally, therefore, the recommended way to manage these types of configurations is by doing so as part of your app’s network security configurations, as explained in Android’s official [security guidelines](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-ssl). Below we show a set of common use cases and quick tips on what could be done on each one, however, each case might be different, so please refer to Android’s [official docs](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-config) on this topic in case you need more details.

### Connecting to Elastic Cloud [faq-ssl-elastic-cloud]

> If your {{stack}} is hosted in {{ecloud}}, you shouldn’t need to add any SSL/TLS config changes in your app, it should work out of the box.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your {{stack}} is hosted in {{ecloud}}, you shouldn’t need to add any SSL/TLS config changes in your app. It should work out of the box.
```

### Connecting to an on-prem server [faq-ssl-on-prem]

> If your {{stack}} is hosted on-prem, then it depends on the type of CA your host uses to sign its certificates, if it’s a commonly trusted CA, then you shouldn’t have to worry about changing your app’s SSL/TLS configuration as it all should work well out of the box, however, if your CAs are unknown/private or your server uses a self-signed certificate, then you would need to configure your app to trust custom CAs by following [Android’s guide on it](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-config).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your {{stack}} is hosted on-prem, then it depends on the type of CA your host uses to sign its certificates. If it’s a commonly trusted CA, you shouldn’t have to worry about changing your app’s SSL/TLS configuration as it all should work well out of the box. However, if your CAs are unknown/private or your server uses a self-signed certificate, then you would need to configure your app to trust custom CAs by following [Android’s guide](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-config).
```

### Debugging purposes [faq-ssl-debug]

If you’re running a local server and need to connect to it without using https in order to run a quick test, then you could temporarily [enable cleartext traffic](https://developer.android.com/guide/topics/manifest/application-element#usesCleartextTraffic) within your `AndroidManifest.xml` file, inside the `<application>` tag. As shown below:

```xml
<application
    ...
    android:usesCleartextTraffic="true">
    ...
</application>
```

::::{note}
You should only enable cleartext traffic for debugging purposes and not for production code.
::::

If enabling cleartext traffic isn’t a valid option for your debugging use case, you should refer to Android’s guide on [configuring CAs for debugging](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-config#TrustingDebugCa).

> For more information on how Android handles network security, please refer to the official [Android docs on it](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-ssl).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on how Android handles network security, please refer to the official [Android docs](https://developer.android.com/privacy-and-security/security-ssl).
```
